I

116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION

H. R. 1367

To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize a program on children
and the media within the National Institutes of Health to study the
health and developmental effects of technology on infants, children, and
adolescents.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FEBRUARY 26, 2019
Mr. RASKIN (for himself and Mr. BUDD) introduced the following bill; which
was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce

A BILL
To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize a
program on children and the media within the National
Institutes of Health to study the health and developmental effects of technology on infants, children, and
adolescents.
1

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

4

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Children and Media Research Advancement Act’’ or the ‘‘CAMRA Act’’.

SEC. 2. RESEARCH ON THE HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFECTS OF MEDIA ON INFANTS, CHILDREN, AND ADOLESCENTS.



Subpart 7 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
7

‘‘SEC. 452H. RESEARCH ON THE HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFECTS OF MEDIA ON INFANTS, CHILDREN, AND ADOLESCENTS.


‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National Institutes of Health, in coordination with or acting through
12 the Director of the Institute, shall conduct and support
13 research and related activities concerning the health and
14 developmental effects of media on infants, children, and
15 adolescents, which may include the positive and negative
16 effects of exposure to and use of media, such as social
17 media, applications, websites, television, motion pictures,
18 artificial intelligence, mobile devices, computers, video
19 games, virtual and augmented reality, and other media
20 formats as they become available. Such research shall attempt to better understand the relationships between
22 media and technology use and individual differences and
23 characteristics of children and shall include longitudinally
24 designed studies to assess the impact of media on youth
25 over time. Such research shall include consideration of core areas of child and adolescent health and development
2 including the following:

(1) COGNITIVE.—The role and impact of
media use and exposure in the development of children and adolescents within such cognitive areas as
language development, executive functioning, attention, creative problem solving skills, visual and spatial skills, literacy, critical thinking, and other 
learning abilities, and the impact of early technology use 
on developmental trajectories.

11

‘‘(2) PHYSICAL.—The role and impact of media
use and exposure on children’s and adolescent’s
physical development and health behaviors, including
diet, exercise, sleeping and eating routines, and
other areas of physical development.


‘‘(3) SOCIO-EMOTIONAL.—The role and impact
of media use and exposure on children’s and adolescents’ social-emotional competencies, including 
selfawareness, self-regulation, social awareness, relationship skills, empathy, distress tolerance, perception of
social cues, awareness of one’s relationship with the
22 media, and decision making, as well as outcomes
23 such as privacy, violence, bullying, depression, anxiety, addiction, obsessive behavior, and suicidal ideation.

‘‘(b) DEVELOPING RESEARCH AGENDA.—The Director of the National Institutes of Health, in coordination
3 with the Director of the Institute, other appropriate na4 tional research institutes, academies, and centers, the
5 Trans-NIH Pediatric Research Consortium, and non-Fed6 eral experts as needed, shall develop a research agenda
7 on the health and developmental effects of media on in8 fants, children, and adolescents to inform research activi9 ties under subsection (a). In developing such research
10 agenda, the Director may use whatever means necessary
11 (such as scientific workshops and literature reviews) to as12 sess current knowledge and research gaps in this area.

‘‘(c) RESEARCH PROGRAM.—In coordination with the

14 Institute and other national research institutes and cen15 ters, and utilizing the National Institutes of Health’s proc16 ess of scientific peer review, the Director of the National
17 Institutes of Health shall fund an expanded research pro18 gram on the health and developmental effects of media
19 on infants, children, and adolescents.
20

‘‘(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1 year
21 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of
22 the National Institutes of Health shall submit a report to
23 Congress on the progress made in gathering data and ex24 panding research on the health and developmental effects
25 of media on infants, children, and adolescents in accordance with this section. Such report shall summarize the
2 grants and research funded, by year, under this section.
3

‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There

4 are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—

‘‘(1) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2022; and
‘‘(2) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023
and 2024.’’.