I

116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION

H. R. 1485

To authorize the Secretary of Education to carry out a program to increase
access to prekindergarten through grade 12 computer science education.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MARCH 4, 2019
Ms. LEE of California (for herself, Ms. DELBENE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. HILL of California, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms. TITUS,
Mr. GRIJALVA, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois) introduced the following bill;
which was referred to the Committee on Education and Labor

A BILL
To authorize the Secretary of Education to carry out a
program to increase access to prekindergarten through
grade 12 computer science education.
1

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

4

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Computer Science for

pamtmann on DSKBFK8HB2PROD with BILLS

5 All Act of 2019’’.
6

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

7


Congress finds that:

(1) Computer science is transforming industry,
creating new fields of commerce, driving innovation,
and bolstering productivity. It is projected that computing will make up 2⁄3 of new science and engineering jobs.

(2) However, the more than 500,000 computing
jobs unfilled in the United States suggests that our
students are not being prepared to meet the demands of a 21st century economy. It is projected
that there will be 1,400,000 new jobs in the technology sector by 2020; however, 70 percent of those
jobs will be unfulfilled at the rate American universities are producing qualified graduates.


(3) Knowledge of computer science and use of
technology is increasingly essential for all individuals, not just those working or planning to work in
the technology sector.

Providing students with computer science
education in elementary school and secondary school
is critical for student success, and strengthening the
workforce of a 21st century economy.

22
(5) While an estimated 90 percent of parents
want computer science taught in their children’s
schools, just 25 percent of all elementary schools
and secondary schools offer high-quality computer
science instruction that includes programming and
coding.

3

(6) Black and Hispanic workers in the science
and engineering workforce continue to be underrepresented. Black employees represent 11 percent of
the U.S. workforce, but only 9 percent of the science
and engineering workforce. Hispanic employees represent 16 percent of the U.S. workforce, but only 7
percent of the science and engineering workforce.

10

(7) While underrepresented minority students
overall face an opportunity gap in STEAM education, women of color particularly face an achievement 
gap in science and engineering education. In
2015, while women were conferred nearly a third of

15
all science and engineering degrees, women of color
16
received only 13 percent (Black: 3.2 percent; Hispanic: 3.9 percent; Native American or Alaskan Native: 
0.2 percent; Asian or Pacific Islander: 4.5 percent; and multi-racial: 1.2 percent).


(8) Women overall face challenges in accessing
21
computer science education. Only 18 percent of all
22
bachelor’s degrees conferred in computer science
23
went to women in 2015, and women of color received
24
only 9 percent of degrees (Black: 3 percent; Hispanic: 2 percent; Native American or Alaska Native:
0.8 percent; and Asian or Pacific islander: 3 percent).

(9) Disparities in enrollment and academic
achievement start early. In 2018, only 28 percent of
5
students taking either AP Computer Science exams
6
were women, and just 21 percent were African
7
American, or Latino.
8
(10) Nationwide, only 88 Native American students took the AP Computer Science exam in 2016,
a decrease from 2015. This means that while Native
11
Americans make up about 1.1 percent of the U.S.
12
student population, they made up 1⁄5 of a percent of
13
students who took AP Computer Science exams in
14
2016.

15
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
16

In this Act:


(1) COMPUTATIONAL

THINKING.—The
‘‘computational thinking’’ aims to capture the wide

range of creative processes that go into formulating
20
problems and their solutions in such a way that the
21
solutions can be carried out by a computer, and may
22
involve some understanding of software and hard-
23
ware design, logic and the use of abstraction and
24
representation, algorithm design, algorithm expression, 
problem decomposition, modularity, programming paradigms and languages, issues of information 
security and privacy, the application of computation across a wide range of disciplines, and the
societal impact of computing. Programming is a

5
hands-on, inquiry-based way in which computational
6
thinking may be learned.

(2)COMPUTER SCIENCE EDUCATION.—The

term ‘‘computer science education’’ includes any of
the following: computational thinking; software design; 
hardware architecture and organization; theoretical foundations; use of abstraction and representation 
in problem solving; logic; algorithm design
and implementation; the limits of computation; programming 
paradigms and languages; parallel and
distributed computing; information security and privacy; computing systems and networks; graphics and
visualization; databases and information retrieval;
18
the relationship between computing and mathematics; artificial intelligence; applications of computing 
across a broad range of disciplines and problems; 
and the social impacts and professional practices of computing.

(3) ELIGIBLE

TRIBAL SCHOOL.—The gible Tribal school’’ means—

(A) a school operated by the Bureau of Indian Education;

3

(B) a school operated pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.); or
(C) a tribally controlled school (as defined
in section 5212 of the Tribally Controlled
Schools Act of 1988 (25 U.S.C. 2511)).

(4) INSTITUTION


term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
11
meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher
12
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
13
(5) LOCAL

EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The
‘‘local educational agency’’ has the meaning given

15
the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 8101).
(6) POVERTY

LINE.—The term ‘‘poverty line’’
has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of
19
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
20
1965 (20 U.S.C. 8101).
(7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of Education.
(8) STEAM.—The term ‘‘STEAM’’ means the

subjects of science, technology, engineering, arts,

25

and mathematics, including computer science.

OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
SEC. 4. GRANTS TO STATES, LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES, AND ELIGIBLE TRIBAL SCHOOLS.

(a) GRANTS TO
STATES, LOCAL EDUCATIONAL
AGENCIES, AND ELIGIBLE TRIBAL SCHOOLS.—


(1)IN

GENERAL.—The Secretary shall award
grants to States, local educational agencies, and eli-

gible Tribal schools—


(A) that demonstrate an ability to carry
9
out an ambitious computer science education
10
expansion effort for all students served by the
11
State, agency, or school, including traditionally
12
underrepresented students; and
13

(B) to serve as models for national replication 
of computer science education expansion efforts.

16

(2) CONSORTIA

AND PARTNERSHIPS.—A State,

local educational agency, or eligible Tribal school
may apply for a grant under this section as part of
19
a consortium or in partnership with a State educational agency or other partner.

(3) DURATION.—Grants awarded under this
section shall be for a period of not more than 5 years.


(b) APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.—A State, local 25 educational agency, or eligible Tribal school that desires
26 a grant under this section shall submit an application to
the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and con2 taining such information as the Secretary may require, 
including, at a minimum, plans for the following:

(1) Every high school student served by the

State, local educational agency, or eligible Tribal
6
school to have access to computer science education
7
not later than 5 years after receipt of grant funds.
8
(2) All students served by the State, local educational agency, or eligible Tribal school to have access to a progression 
of computer science education from prekindergarten through middle school that
prepares students for high school computer science
education.

14

(3) Expansion of overall access to rigorous

STEAM classes, utilizing computer science as a catalyst for increased interest in STEAM more broadly,
and reducing the enrollment and academic achievement gap for underrepresented groups such as minorities, 
girls, and youth from families living at, or
below, the poverty line.

(4) Continuous monitoring and evaluation of
project activities.

(5) Effectively sustaining project activities after
24
the grant period ends, and the length of time which
the applicant plans to sustain the project activities.


(c) USE OF GRANT FUNDS.—
(1) REQUIRED

State, local educational agency, or eligible Tribal school that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant
funds for the following activities:
(A) Training teachers to teach computer
with BILLS
ACTIVITIES.—A science.

(B) Expanding access to high-quality
learning materials and online learning options.

(C) Creating plans for expanding overall
access to rigorous STEAM classes, utilizing
computer science as a catalyst for increased interest in STEAM more broadly, and reducing

14
course equity gaps for all students, including
15
underrepresented groups such as minorities,
16
girls, and youth from low-income families.
17

(D) Ensuring additional support and resources, which may include mentoring for students 
traditionally underrepresented in STEAM fields.

(2) PERMISSIBLE
ACTIVITIES.—A
State, local 22
educational agency, or eligible Tribal school that receives a grant under this section may use the grant
funds for the following activities:

(A) Building effective regional collaborations with industry, nonprofit organizations, 2-
3
year and 4-year degree granting institutions of
4
higher education (including community colleges,
5
Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
6
Hispanic-serving institutions, Asian American
7
and Native American Pacific Islander-serving
8

institutions, American Indian Tribally controlled 
colleges and universities, Alaska Native
10
and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, Predominantly Black Institutions, Native 
American-serving, Nontribal institutions, and other
minority-serving institutions), and out-of-school
providers.

15
(B) Recruiting and hiring instructional
16
personnel as needed, including curriculum specialists.

(C) Preparations for effectively sustaining
19
project activities after the grant period ends.


(D) Disseminating information about effective practices.

(3) LIMITATION.—Not more than 15 percent of
23
a grant may be used to purchase equipment.
24
(d) NATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—The Secretary may reserve not more than 2.5 percent of funds available for
1 grants under this section for national activities, including
2 technical assistance, evaluation, and dissemination.

(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.— There
4 are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
5 a total of $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 and the suc6 ceeding 4 fiscal years.
7

SEC. 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

8
(a) GRANTEE REPORTS.—Each State, local educational 
agency, and eligible Tribal school that receives a
10 grant under this Act shall submit to the Secretary a re11 port, not less than twice a year during the grant period,
12 on the use of grant funds that shall include data on the
13 numbers of students served through activities funded
14 under this Act, disaggregated by race (for Asian and Na15 tive Hawaiian or Pacific Islander students using the same
16 race response categories as the decennial census of the
17 population), ethnicity, gender, and eligibility to receive a
18 free or reduced price lunch under the Richard B. Russell
19 National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.).

 REPORT

BY THE

SECRETARY.—Not later than 5

21 years after the first grant is awarded under this Act, the
22 Secretary shall submit to Congress a report based on the
23 analysis of reports received under subsection (a) with a
1 recommendation on how to expand the program under this
2 Act.