I

116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H. R. 2202
To establish a coordinated Federal initiative to accelerate artificial intelligence
research and development for the economic and national security of
the United States, and for other purposes.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
APRIL 10, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr. REED) introduced the following bill; which
was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
A BILL
To establish a coordinated Federal initiative to accelerate
artificial intelligence research and development for the
economic and national security of the United States,
and for other purposes.

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the

5 ‘‘Growing Artificial Intelligence Through Research Act’’
6 or the ‘‘GrAITR Act’’.
7
(b) TABLE
OF
CONTENTS.—The table of contents for
8 this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
TITLE I—NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INITIATIVE
National Artificial Intelligence Initiative.
National Artificial Intelligence Coordination Office.
Interagency Committee.
Advisory Committee.
TITLE II—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 201. In general.
TITLE III—NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION AND MULTIDISCIPLINARY CENTERS FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH
AND EDUCATION
Sec. 301. Artificial intelligence research and education program.
Sec. 302. Multidisciplinary centers for artificial intelligence research and education.
TITLE IV—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
RESEARCH PROGRAM
Sec. 401. In general.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.


It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) there is a need for a National Artificial Intelligence 
Initiative, including a comprehensive artificial 
intelligence research and development strategy
and coordination across agencies;
(2) there are currently several committees
working on related tasks with respect to artificial intelligence 
and many agency representatives serve on
multiple such committees with similar goals with respect 
to artificial intelligence; and
(3) the reporting structure of such committees
could be simplified to address efficiently the goals of
the Initiative.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:

(1) ARTIFICIAL


(A) means intelligent machines that use algorithms, computer programs, and other techniques 
to behave in ways commonly thought to
require intelligence; and
(B) includes forms such as machine learning, computer vision, and natural language
processing.

(2) ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.—The
term ‘‘Advisory Committee’’ means the committee established
or designated under section 104.
(3) EMERGING RESEARCH INSTITUTION.—The term ‘‘emerging research institution’’ means an 
institution of higher education that—

(A) receives less than $20,000,000 in Federal research funding annually; and
(B) may grant a doctoral degree.


(4) INDUSTRY.—The term ‘‘industry’’ means
2
entities in industries relevant to artificial intelligence.
(5) INITIATIVE.—The term ‘‘Initiative’’ means
the National Artificial Intelligence Initiative established under section 101.
(6) INSTITUTIONS
The term ‘‘institutions of higher education’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
11
(7)
INTERAGENCY
COMMITTEE.—The
‘‘Interagency Committee’’ means the committee established or designated under section 104(a).
(8) K–12
EDUCATION.—The term ‘‘K–12 education’’ means elementary school and secondary education, as such terms are defined in section 8101 of
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(9) MACHINE LEARNING.—The
term ‘‘machine learning’’ means a subfield of artificial intelligence
that is characterized by giving computers the autonomous ability to progressively optimize performance
of a specific task based on data without being explicitly programmed.

TITLE I—NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE INITIATIVE

SEC. 101. NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INITIATIVE.
The President shall establish and implement an initiative with respect to artificial intelligence, to be known
7 as the ‘‘National Artificial Intelligence Initiative’’. In car8 rying out the Initiative, the President shall, acting through
9 appropriate Federal entities, including the Networking
10 and Information Technology Research and Development

11 Program—
(1) establish the objectives, priorities, and metrics for the strategic plans under section 103 to
accelerate science and technology applications in the United
16
States;
development
of
artificial intelligence
(2) invest in artificial intelligence science and
technology research, development, demonstration,
application to analysis and modeling, and other activities;

(3) support the development of an artificial intelligence science and technology workforce pipeline
by making strategic investments to—

(A) expand the number of researchers,
educators, and students with training in artificial intelligence science and technology to 
develop a workforce pipeline;
3
(B) increase the number of skilled and
4
trained workers from underrepresented groups
5
who can contribute to the development of artificial intelligence technologies, diversify the workforce, and expand the workforce pipeline;
8
(C) promote the development and inclusion
9
of multidisciplinary curricula and research opportunities 
for artificial intelligence science and
engineering, including advanced technological
12
education, during the primary, secondary, undergraduate,
learning, and career retraining stages of education; and
graduate,
postdoctoral,
16
(D) equip workers with the knowledge and
skill sets required to operate effectively in occupations 
and workplaces that will be increasingly
influenced by artificial intelligence;
(4) facilitate coordination of efforts and collaboration with respect to artificial intelligence among
Government, Federal and national laboratories, non-profit organizations, institutions of higher education,
and industry;

(5) leverage existing Federal investments, and
partner with industry and institutions of higher education 
to leverage knowledge and resources, to advance objectives and priorities of the Initiative;
strengthen research, development, demonstration, and application in the fields of artificial intelligence science and technology by—
(A) addressing basic research knowledge
gaps with respect to artificial intelligence
10
through research;
(B) promoting the further development of
12
facilities and centers available for artificial intelligence science and technology research, testing, 
and education;
(C) stimulating research on, and promoting more rapid development and commercialization of, 
artificial intelligence-based technologies;
19
(D) promoting research into the effects of
20
artificial intelligence and applications of artificial intelligence on society, the workforce and
workplace, and individuals, including those from
underrepresented groups;
24
(E) promoting data sharing among the
25
Federal Government, academic researchers, the
private sector, and other practitioners of artificial intelligence;

(F) identifying and minimizing inappropriate bias in data sets, algorithms, and other
aspects of artificial intelligence; and
(G) supporting efforts to create metrics to
assess safety, security, and reliability of applications of artificial intelligence science and technology; and
(7) ensure that artificial intelligence research,
development, demonstration, and application efforts
create measurable benefits for all individuals in the
United States, including members of disadvantaged
and underrepresented groups.

SEC. 102. NATIONAL ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE COORDINATION OFFICE.

(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of

18 Science and Technology Policy, in consultation with the
19 Director of the National Science Foundation, the Secretary 
of Energy, and the Secretary of Commerce shall
21 establish or designate, and appoint a director of, an office
22 to be known as the ‘‘National Artificial Intelligence Coordination Office’’.
24

(b) DUTIES.—The National Artificial Intelligence Co-
ordination Office shall—
(1) provide technical and administrative support
to the Advisory Committee;
(2) serve as the point of contact on Federal artificial intelligence activities for government organizations, 
academia, industry, professional societies,
State artificial intelligence programs, interested citizen 
groups, and others to exchange technical and
programmatic information;

conduct public outreach, including dissemination 
of findings and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, as appropriate; and
(4) promote access to and early application of
13
the technologies, innovations, and expertise derived
14
from Initiative activities to agency missions and systems across the Federal Government, and to United
States industry, including startup companies.

(c) FUNDING.—The National Artificial Intelligence

18 Coordination Office shall be funded through interagency
19 funding.
20
(d) REPORT.—Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science
22 and Technology Policy shall report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and
24 the House of Representatives Committee on Science,

1 Space, and Technology on the funding of the Artificial In2 telligence Coordination Office. The report shall include —

(1) the amount of funding required to adequately fund the Office;
(2) the adequacy of existing mechanisms to
fund this Office; and
(3) the actions taken by the Director to ensure

SEC. 103. INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of

11 Science and Technology Policy shall establish or designate
12 an Interagency Committee on Artificial Intelligence.
13
(b) DUTIES.—The Interagency Committee, in consultation 
with the Advisory Committee, shall—
(1) coordinate the artificial intelligence and
technology research and education activities and programs 
of the Federal agencies;
(2) establish objectives and priorities of the Initiative, 
consistent with the goals in section 3, based
on identified knowledge and workforce gaps and
other national needs;
(3) assess and recommend Federal infrastructure needs to support the Initiative; and
(4) evaluate opportunities for international co-
operation with strategic allies on research and development 
in artificial intelligence and technology.

(c) CHAIRS.—The Interagency Committee shall be

5 jointly chaired by the Director of the National Institute
6 of Standards and Technology, the Director of the National
7 Science Foundation, and the Secretary of Energy.
(d) STRATEGIC PLAN.—Not later than 1 year after
9 the date of enactment of this Act, the Advisory Committee
10 shall develop a 5-year strategic plan, and 6 years after
11 enactment of the Act develop an additional 5-year strategic plan, 
with periodic updates as appropriate to guide
13 the activities of the Initiative, meet Initiative goals and
14 priorities, and anticipate outcomes at the participating
15 agencies. In carrying out this subsection, the Interagency
16 Committee should take in to consideration the reports
17 from the Advisory Committee, as described below.

(e) COMPOSITION.—The Interagency Committee shall
19 be comprised of representatives from—

(1) the National Institute of Standards and
Technology;
(2) the National Science Foundation;
(3) the Department of Energy;
(4) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
(5) the Department of Defense;
(6) the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;
(7) the Office of Management and Budget;
(8) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(9) the National Institutes of Health; and
(10) any other Federal agency as considered
appropriate by the Director of the Office of Science
and Technology Policy.

SEC. 104. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Office of
12 Science and Technology Policy (in this section referred to
13 as the ‘‘Director’’) shall establish or designate an National
14 Artificial Intelligence Advisory Committee.

(b) QUALIFICATIONS.—The Director shall appoint

16 members to the Advisory Committee who are qualified to
17 provide advice and information on artificial intelligence
18 and technology research, development, demonstrations,
19 education, infrastructure, technology transfer, commercial
20 applications, or concerns of a national security, social, or
21 economic nature. The set of appointees shall collectively
22 have expertise on a wide range of defense and non-defense



23 Artificial Intelligence applications.

(c) DUTIES.—The Advisory Committee shall advise

25 the Director of the Office of Science and Technology PoLicy 
on matters relating to the Initiative, including assesing —
3
(1) trends and developments in artificial intelligence, 
including the current and near future state
of artificial intelligence systems and forecasting;
(2) progress made in implementing the Initiative;
(3) the need to revise the Initiative;
(4) the balance among the components of the
Initiative, including funding levels for the Initiative
component areas;
(5) whether the Initiative component areas, priorities, and technical goals are helping to maintain
United States leadership in artificial intelligence and
technology;
(6) the management, coordination, implementation, and activities of the Initiative; and
(7) whether societal, ethical, legal, environmental, and workforce concerns are adequately addressed by the Initiative.

(d) REPORTS.—Not later than 4 years after the date
22 of the most recent assessment under subsection (c), and
23 quadrennially thereafter, the Advisory Committee shall
24 submit to the Director of the Office of Science and Tech25 nology Policy, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and

1 Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on
2 Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Rep3 resentatives a report of its assessments under subsection
4 (c) and its recommendations for ways to improve the Initiative.
(e) TRAVEL EXPENSES
NON-FEDERAL MEM-
members of the Advisory Committee,
8 while attending meetings of the Advisory Committee or
9 while otherwise serving at the request of the head of the
10 Advisory Committee away from their homes or regular
11 places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by 
section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for individuals
14 in the government serving without pay. Nothing in this
15 subsection shall be construed to prohibit members of the
16 Advisory Committee who are officers or employees of the
17 United States from being allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with existing law.


(f) EXEMPTION FROM SUNSET.—Section 14 of the
21 Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the

22 Advisory Committee.

TITLE II—NATIONAL INSTITUTE
OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 201. IN GENERAL.
(a) NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
7 TECHNOLOGY ACTIVITIES.—As part of the Initiative, the
8 Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (in this section, referred to as the ‘‘Director’’)
10 shall—
(1) carry out the Initiative, as appropriate;
(2) support the development of measurements
and standards necessary to advance commercial development 
of artificial intelligence applications, including by—
(A) developing measurements and standards; and
(B) supporting the efforts to develop measurements and consensus standards by standards 
development organizations;
(3) establish and support collaborative ventures
or consortia with public or private sector entities, including institutions of higher education, National
Laboratories, and industry, for the purpose of advancing fundamental and applied artificial 
intelligence research and development; and
(4) use existing authorities to award contracts
as necessary to carry out the Initiative, including cooperative 
agreements and other similar transactions.
(b) ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OUTREACH.—

(1) IN GENERAL.—The
Director shall conduct
(A) to receive input from stakeholders on
the development of a plan to address future
measurements and standards related to artificial intelligence; 
and to provide an opportunity for public comment on any such measurements or standards.

(2) MEETINGS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
19
a periodic basis thereafter, as the Director determines 
appropriate, the Director shall convene
one or more meetings of stakeholders, including
technical expert representatives from government 
organizations, industry, and institutions
of higher education to discuss topics described
in subparagraph (B).

(B) TOPICS.—Meetings under subparagraph (A) may cover topics that the Director
determines to be important to the development of standards and measurements with respect to
artificial intelligence, including—
cybersecurity;
(ii) algorithm accountability;
(iii) algorithm explainability;
(iv) algorithm trustworthiness; and
(v) the establishment of a common
lexicon of artificial intelligence.
(C) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the meetings under this subsection shall be—

(i) to assess the contemporary research on the topic determined by the Director under subparagraph (B);
(ii) to evaluate the research gaps relating to such topic; and
(iii) to provide an opportunity for
stakeholders to provide recommendations
on what the current research needs are
that the National Institute of Standards
and Technology and the Initiative may address.

(3) REPORT
TO CONGRESS.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director shall transmit to the Committee on Science,
4
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate a summary report containing 
a description of the results of outreach and
meetings conducted under this section.

(c) APPROPRIATION.—There are authorized to be appropriated 
$90,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
11 through 2024 to carry out this section.


TITLE III—NATIONAL SCIENCE
FOUNDATION
AND
MULTIDISCIPLINARY CENTERS FOR
ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION

SEC. 301. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION PROGRAM.

(a) IN GENERAL.—As part of the Initiative, the Director of the National Science Foundation 
(in this section, referred to as the ‘‘Director’’) shall establish and imple22 ment a research and education program on artificial 
intelligence and engineering.
(b) PROGRAM COMPONENTS.—In carrying out the
program required under subsection (a), the Director shall
3 carry out the Initiative as appropriate and shall—

(1) continue to support interdisciplinary research on, and human resources development in, all
aspects of artificial intelligence science and engineering, including—

(A) algorithm accountability;
(B) minimization of inappropriate bias in
training data sets or algorithmic feature selection;
(C) qualitative and quantitative forecasting of future capabilities and applications; and
artificial intelligence;
(2) use existing authorities and programs and
(D) the societal and ethical implications of collaborate with other Federal agencies—

(A) to improve the teaching and learning of artificial intelligence science and engineering
during the primary, secondary, undergraduate, graduate, postgraduate, adult learning, and career retraining stages of education;

(B) to increase participation in the artificial intelligence fields, including by individuals
identified in sections 33 and 34 of the Science and Engineering Equal Opportunities Act (42
U.S.C. 1885a; 42 U.S.C. 1885b);

(C) to formulate goals for education activities related to artificial intelligence engineering
and research to be supported by the National
Science Foundation related to topics important
to the Initiative, including—

(i) algorithm accountability;
(ii) algorithm explainability;
(iii) consumer data privacy;
(iv) the assessment and minimization
of inappropriate bias in training data and
output;
(v) the societal and ethical implications of the use of artificial intelligence;
(vi) algorithm trustworthiness; and
(vii) algorithmic forecasting;

(D) to engage with institutions of higher
education,
20
users of information produced under this section, entities in the private sector, and non-Federal entities—
research communities,
(i) to leverage the collective body of
knowledge from existing artificial intelligence and engineering research and education 
activities; and

3
(ii) to support partnerships among institutions of higher education and industry
that facilitate collaborative research, personnel exchanges, and workforce development;
(E) to coordinate research efforts funded
through existing programs across the directorates of the National Science Foundation; and
(F) to ensure adequate access to artificial
intelligence and engineering research and education infrastructure, including through development 
of hardware and facilitation of the use
of computing resources, including cloud-based computing services.
(c) GRADUATE TRAINEESHIPS.—In carrying out the
18 program required under subsection (a), the Director may
19 provide traineeships to graduate students at institutions

20 of higher education who—
21
(1) are United States nationals or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United
States; and
(2) who choose to pursue masters or doctoral
degrees in artificial intelligence.
SEC. 302. MULTIDISCIPLINARY CENTERS FOR ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.
IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National

4 Science Foundation (in this section, referred to as the
5 ‘‘Director’’), in consultation with other Federal agencies
6 as appropriate, shall award grants to eligible entities to
7 establish up to 5 research and education centers (in this
8 section, referred to as ‘‘Centers’’) to conduct research and
9 education activities in support of the Initiative, to be
10 known as ‘‘Multidisciplinary Centers for Artificial Intel11 ligence Research and Education’’.
12
(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—In this section, the term
13 ‘‘eligible entity’’ means—
an institution of higher education;
(2) a relevant nonprofit or private sector organization;
(3) a State or local government; and
(4) a consortium of entities that consists of entities described in paragraphs (1) through (3).
(c) K–12 EDUCATION.—Not less than 1 grant under
21 this section must be for a Center with the primary purpose
22 of integrating artificial intelligence into K–12 education.
(d) APPLICATION.—An eligible entity seeking funding
24 under this section shall submit an application to the Direc25 tor at such time, in such manner, and containing such
1 information as the Director may require. The application
2 shall include—
(1) a plan for the proposed Center—
(A) to work with other research institutions, emerging research institutions, and industry 
to leverage expertise in artificial intelligence, education and curricula development,
and technology transfer;
(B) to promote active collaboration among
researchers in multiple disciplines and across
multiple institutions involved in artificial intelligence research including physics, engineering,
mathematical sciences, computer and information science, biological and cognitive sciences,
material science, education, social and behavioral sciences, such as industrial-organizational
psychology;
18(C) to integrate into the activities of the
Center consideration of the ethics of artificial intelligence 
development, technology usage, and
data collection, storage, and sharing, including
training data sets;
(D) to support long-term and short-term
workforce development in the artificial intelligence field, including broadening participation
of underrepresented groups; and
(E) to support an innovation ecosystem to
work with industry to translate Center research
into applications and products; and
(2) a description of the anticipated long-term
impact of the Center beyond the termination of support under this section.
9
(e) SELECTION AND DURATION.—
10
(1) IN
GENERAL.—A
Center established using a
grant under this section may receive funding under
this section for a period of 5 years.
(2) EXTENSION.—Such a Center may apply for,
and the Director may grant, an extension of a grant
under this section for an additional 5-year period.
(3) TERMINATION.—The Director may terminate funding under this section for an underper-
forming Center for cause.
19
(f) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each Center established under
21 this section for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
TITLE IV—DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE
RESEARCH
PROGRAM
SEC. 401. IN GENERAL.
(a) PROGRAM.—As a part of the Initiative, the Secretary of Energy (in this section, referred to as the ‘‘Sec8 retary’’) shall carry out a research program on artificial intelligence.
(b) COMPONENTS.—In carrying out the program required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
12
(1) formulate objectives for artificial intelligence
research to be supported by the Department of Energy that are consistent with the Initiative;
(2) leverage the collective body of knowledge
from existing artificial intelligence research;
(3) coordinate research efforts funded through
existing programs across the Office of Science;
(4) engage with other Federal agencies, research communities, 
and potential users of information produced under this section; and
(5) build, maintain, and, to the extent practicable, make available for use by academic, government, 
and private sector researchers, the computing
hardware and software necessary to carry out a research 
program in artificial intelligence science.
(c) RESEARCH CENTERS.—
(1) GRANTS.—In carrying out this section, the
Secretary may award grants to eligible entities to establish and 
operate up to 5 artificial intelligence research centers (in this section, referred to as ‘‘Cen-
ters’’) for the purpose described in paragraph (3).
(2) SELECTION.—
grants shall be awarded through a competitive, merit-reviewed
process, and consider applications from National Laboratories, institutions of higher education 
including emerging research institutions,
research centers, multi-institutional collaborations, and other appropriate entities.
(B) ELIGIBLE
ENTITIES.—In this section,
the term ‘‘eligible entity’’ means—
(i) an institution of higher education;
(ii) a relevant nonprofit or private sector organization;
(iii) a State or local government;
(iv) a National Laboratory or a federally funded research and development center; and
(v) a consortium of entities that consists of entities described in clauses (i)
through (iv).
(3) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Centers established under this section is—
(A) to serve the needs of the Department
of Energy and academic, educational, and private 
sector entities that the Secretary determines appropriate;
(B) to advance research and education in
artificial intelligence and improving the competitiveness of the United States; and
(C) to provide access to computing resources to promote scientific progress and enable 
users from institutions of higher education,
educational institutions, the National Laboratories, and industry—
(i) to make scientific discoveries relevant 
to artificial intelligence research;
(ii) to conduct research to accelerate
scientific breakthroughs in artificial intelligence 
science and technology;
(iii) to support research conducted
under this section; and
(iv) to increase the distribution of research 
infrastructure and broaden the
spectrum of students exposed to the artificial intelligence research at institutions of
higher education, including emerging research institutions.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall ensure 
the coordination of, and avoid unnecessary duplication of, the activities of 
each Center with the activities of—
(A) other research entities of the Department,  
including the Nanoscale Science Research
Centers, the Energy Frontier Research Centers,
and the Energy Innovation Hubs; and
(B) industry.
(5) DURATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any
center selected and
established under this section is authorized to
carry out activities for a period of 5 years.
(B) EXTENSION.—Such a Center may apply for, and the Director may grant, an extension 
of a grant under this section for an additional 5-year period.
(C) TERMINATION.—Consistent with the
existing authorities of the Department, the Secretary may terminate an underperforming 
Center for cause during the performance period.
(d) APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be
appropriated $225,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024 to the Office of Science of the
Department of Energy to carry out this section.

(2) LIMIT.—Not less than $100,000,000 of
funds appropriated under paragraph (1) shall be
used to carry out subsections (a) and (b).