I

116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION

H. R. 2231
To direct the Federal Trade Commission to require entities that use, store,
or share personal information to conduct automated decision system
impact assessments and data protection impact assessments.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Ms. CLARKE
APRIL 10, 2019
of New York introduced the following bill; which was referred
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
A BILL
To direct the Federal Trade Commission to require entities
that use, store, or share personal information to conduct
automated decision system impact assessments and data
protection impact assessments.
1
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
4

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Algorithmic Accountability Act of 2019’’.


In this Act:
(1) AUTOMATED

‘‘automated decision system’’ means a computational
process, including one derived from machine learning, statistics, or other data processing or artificial intelligence 
techniques, that makes a decision or facilitates human decision making, that impacts consumers.
9(2) AUTOMATED
SESSMENT.—The

DECISION SYSTEM IMPACT AS-
 ‘‘automated decision system impact assessment’’ means a study evaluating an
automated decision system and the automated decision system’s development process, including the design 
and training data of the automated decision
system, for impacts on accuracy, fairness, bias, discrimination, privacy, and security that includes, at a
minimum—
(A) a detailed description of the automated
decision system, its design, its training, data,
and its purpose;
(B) an assessment of the relative benefits
and costs of the automated decision system in
light of its purpose, taking into account relevant factors, including—

(i) data minimization practices;
DECISION SYSTEM.—The
1
(ii) the duration for which personal
information and the results of the automated 
decision system are stored;
(iii) what information about the automated 
decision system is available to consumers;
(iv) the extent to which consumers
have access to the results of the automated
decision system and may correct or object
to its results; and
(v) the recipients of the results of the
automated decision system;
(C) an assessment of the risks posed by
the automated decision system to the privacy or
security of personal information of consumers
and the risks that the automated decision system 
may result in or contribute to inaccurate,
unfair, biased, or discriminatory decisions im-
pacting consumers; and
(D) the measures the covered entity will
employ to minimize the risks described in sub-
paragraph (C), including technological and
physical safeguards.
(3) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(4) CONSUMER.—The term ‘‘consumer’’ means
an individual.
(5) COVERED
‘‘covered entity’’ means any person, partnership, or corporation
over which the Commission has jurisdiction under
section 5(a)(2) of the Federal Trade Commission
Act (15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2)) that—
(A) had greater than $50,000,000 in average annual 
gross receipts for the 3-taxable-year
period preceding the most recent fiscal year, as
determined in accordance with paragraphs (2)
and (3) of section 448(c) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986;
(B) possesses or controls personal information 
on more than—
(i) 1,000,000 consumers; or
(ii) 1,000,000 consumer devices;
(C) is substantially owned, operated, or
controlled by a person, partnership, or corporation 
that meets the requirements under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B); or
(D) is a data broker or other commercial
entity that, as a substantial part of its business,
collects, assembles, or maintains personal information 
concerning an individual who is not a
customer or an employee of that entity in order
to sell or trade the information or provide third-
party access to the information.
(6) DATA
The term ‘‘data protection impact assessment’’
means a study evaluating the extent to which an information 
system protects the privacy and security
of personal information the system processes.
(7) HIGH-RISK
AUTOMATED
DECISION
means an automated decision system that term ‘‘high-risk automated decision sys-
(A) taking into account the novelty of the
technology used and the nature, scope, context,
and purpose of the automated decision system,
poses a significant risk—
(i) to the privacy or security of personal 
information of consumers; or
(ii) of resulting in or contributing to
inaccurate, unfair, biased, or discriminatory decisions impacting consumers;
(B) makes decisions, or facilitates human
decision making, based on systematic and extensive 
evaluations of consumers, including attempts 
to analyze or predict sensitive aspects of
their lives, such as their work performance, economic 
situation, health, personal preferences,
interests, behavior, location, or movements,
(i) alter legal rights of consumers; or
(ii) otherwise significantly impact consumers;
(C) involves the personal information of a
significant number of consumers regarding
race, color, national origin, political opinions,
religion, trade union membership, genetic data,
biometric data, health, gender, gender identity,
sexuality, sexual orientation, criminal convictions, or arrests;
(D) systematically monitors a large, publicly accessible physical place; or
(E) meets any other criteria established by
the Commission in regulations issued under section 3(b)(1).
(8) HIGH-RISK
INFORMATION
SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘high-risk information system’’ means an information system that—
(A) taking into account the novelty of the
technology used and the nature, scope, context,
and purpose of the information system, poses a
significant risk to the privacy or security of personal information of consumers;
(B) involves the personal information of a
significant number of consumers regarding
race, color, national origin, political opinions,
religion, trade union membership, genetic data,
biometric data, health, gender, gender identity,
sexuality, sexual orientation, criminal convictions, or arrests;
(C) systematically monitors a large, publicly accessible physical place; or
(D) meets any other criteria established by
the Commission in regulations issued under section 3(b)(1).
(9) INFORMATION
(C) systematically monitors a large, pub11
SYSTEM.—The
term ‘‘information system’’—
(A) means a process, automated or not,
that involves personal information, such as the
collection, recording, organization, structuring,
storage, alteration, retrieval, consultation, use,
sharing, disclosure, dissemination, combination,
restriction, erasure, or destruction of personal
information; and
(B) does not include automated decision
systems.

PERSONAL
INFORMATION.—The term
‘‘personal information’’ means any information, regardless of how the information is collected, 
inferred, or obtained that is reasonably linkable to a
specific consumer or consumer device.
(11) STORE.—The term ‘‘store’’—
(A) means the actions of a person, partnership, 
or corporation to retain information;
and
(B) includes actions to store, collect, assemble, 
possess, control, or maintain information.
(12) USE.—The term ‘‘use’’ means the actions
of a person, partnership, or corporation in using information, 
including actions to use, process, or access information.
SEC. 3. DATA PROTECTION AUTHORITY.
(a) ACTS PROHIBITED.—It is unlawful for any covered entity to—
(1) violate a regulation promulgated under subsection (b); or
(2) knowingly provide substantial assistance to
any person, partnership, or corporation whose actions 
violate subsection (b).
(b) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN
later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this section, the Commission 
shall promulgate regulations, in accordance with
section 553 of title 5, United States Code, that—
(A) require each covered entity to conduct
automated decision system impact assessments
of—
(i) existing high-risk automated decision systems, as frequently as the Commission 
determines is necessary; and
(ii) new high-risk automated decision
systems, prior to implementation;
provided that a covered entity may evaluate
similar high-risk automated decision systems
that present similar risks in a single assessment;
(B) require each covered entity to conduct
data protection impact assessments of—
(i) existing high-risk information systems, as frequently as the Commission determines  
is necessary; and
(ii) new high-risk information systems, prior to implementation;
provided that a covered entity may evaluate
similar high-risk information systems that
present similar risks in a single assessment;
(C) require each covered entity to conduct
the impact assessments under subparagraphs
(A) and (B), if reasonably possible, in consultation 
with external third parties, including independent 
auditors and independent technology
experts; and
(D) require each covered entity to reasonably 
address in a timely manner the results of
the impact assessments under subparagraphs
(A) and (B).
(2) OPTIONAL
PUBLICATION OF IMPACT ASSESSMENTS.—The
paragraphs (A) and (B) may be made public by the covered entity at its sole discretion.
(c) PREEMPTION
impact assessments under sub-
OF
PRIVATE CONTRACTS.—It shall

19 be unlawful for any covered entity to commit the acts prohibited in subsection 
(a), regardless of specific agreements
between entities or consumers.

(d) ENFORCEMENT BY THE COMMISSION.—
(1) UNFAIR
OR DECEPTIVE ACTS OR PRACTICES.—A
as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the
(2) POWERS
(A) IN
Commission
Act
(15

OF THE COMMISSION.—
GENERAL.—The Commission shall
enforce this section in the same manner, by the
same means, and with the same jurisdiction,
powers, and duties as though all applicable
terms and provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated 
into and made a part of this section.
(B) PRIVILEGES

AND IMMUNITIES.—Any
person who violates subsection (a) shall be subject 
to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal
Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).
(C) AUTHORITY
PRESERVED.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the 
Commission under any other provision of law.
(e) ENFORCEMENT BY STATES.—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—If
the attorney general of a
State has reason to believe that an interest of the
residents of the State has been or is being threatened 
or adversely affected by a practice that violates
subsection (a), the attorney general of the State
may, as parens patriae, bring a civil action on behalf
of the residents of the State in an appropriate district 
court of the United States to obtain appropriate relief.
(2) RIGHTS
(A) NOTICE
OF COMMISSION.—
(i) IN
TO COMMISSION.—
GENERAL.—Except as provided
in clause (iii), the attorney general of a
State, before initiating a civil action under
paragraph (1), shall provide written notification 
to the Commission that the attorney
general intends to bring such civil action.
(ii) CONTENTS.—The notification required 
under clause (i) shall include a copy
of the complaint to be filed to initiate the
civil action.
(iii) EXCEPTION.—If it is not feasible
for the attorney general of a State to provide 
the notification required under clause
(i) before initiating a civil action under
paragraph (1), the attorney general shall
notify the Commission immediately upon
instituting the civil action.
(B) INTERVENTION
Commission may—
(i) intervene in any civil action
brought by the attorney general of a State
under paragraph (1); and
(ii) upon intervening—
(I) be heard on all matters arising in the civil action; and
(II) file petitions for appeal of a
decision in the civil action.
(3) INVESTIGATORY
POWERS.—Nothing
subsection may be construed to prevent the attorney
general of a State from exercising the powers conferred 
on the attorney general by the laws of the
State to conduct investigations, to administer oaths
or affirmations, or to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary or other
evidence.
(4) VENUE;
SERVICE OF PROCESS.—
(A) VENUE.—Any action brought under
paragraph (1) may be brought in—
(i) the district court of the United
States that meets applicable requirements
relating to venue under section 1391 of
title 28, United States Code; or
(ii) another court of competent jurisdiction.
(B) SERVICE
brought under paragraph (1), process may be
served in any district in which—
(i) the defendant is an inhabitant,
may be found, or transacts business; or
(ii) venue is proper under section
1391 of title 28, United States Code.
(5) ACTIONS
(A) IN
BY OTHER STATE OFFICIALS.—
GENERAL.—In
addition to a civil
action brought by an attorney general under
paragraph (1), any other officer of a State who
is authorized by the State to do so may bring
a civil action under paragraph (1), subject to
the same requirements and limitations that
apply under this subsection to civil actions
brought by attorneys general.
(B) SAVINGS
PROVISION.—Nothing
in this
subsection may be construed to prohibit an authorized 
official of a State from initiating or
continuing any proceeding in a court of the
State for a violation of any civil or criminal law
of the State.
SEC. 4. NO PREEMPTION.
Nothing in this Act may be construed to preempt any
3 State law.