I
116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
H. R. 2432
To require the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress on
the artificial intelligence strategy of the Department of Defense.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Mr. DUNN
MAY 1, 2019
introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee
on Armed Services
A BILL
To require the Secretary of Defense to submit a report
to Congress on the artificial intelligence strategy of the
Department of Defense.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Future Defense Artificial Intelligence Technology Assessment Act’’ or the ‘‘Future DATA Act’’.
7
SEC. 2. REPORT ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with head of the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center, 
shall submit to the appropriate congres2 sional committees a report on the artificial intelligence
3 strategy of the Department of Defense.
ELEMENTS.—The report under subsection (a)
shall include the following:
Analysis of the increasing use of artificial intelligence 
technology by the Department of Defense 
and the effects of such technology on the Department.
(2) Identification of the data necessary for the
Secretary to properly conduct the analysis under
paragraph (1), including identification of any gaps
in the availability of such data.
The plan of the Secretary to protect systems 
that use artificial intelligence from bad actors
and any attempts by individuals to misrepresent or
alter information used or provided by artificial intelligence.
Analysis of the expected benefits of artificial intelligence for the operation of the Armed Forces
over the period of 20 years following the year in
which the report is submitted.
(5) Analysis of the potential of artificial intelligence to 
improve multi-domain operations across
the Armed Forces.
(6) Identification of any ethical guidelines applicable 
to the use of artificial intelligence by the
Department.
(7) The plan of the Secretary to ensure collaboration 
among the Department, industry, academia,
and national laboratories on matters relating to the
research, development, test, and evaluation, contracting, 
acquisition, and onboarding of artificial intelligence technology.
(c) COLLABORATION.—In preparing the report under
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may collaborate,
12 through a series of meetings, roundtables, or by other
13 means, with—
(1) a broad range of industrial stakeholders in
the technology, manufacturing, and service sectors,
including large and small companies, think tanks,
and industry organizations; and
the heads of any other Federal agencies the
Secretary determines to be appropriate.
APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committees on Armed Services of the
Senate and the House of Representatives;
(2) the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology of the House of Representatives;
(3) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate;
(4) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
(5) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate.