I

116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION

H. R. 827

To promote a 21st century artificial intelligence workforce.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
JANUARY 28, 2019
Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. STEFANIK, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. NORMAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. MITCHELL, and Mr. KHANNA) introduced the following bill;
which was referred to the Committee on Education and Labor

A BILL
To promote a 21st century artificial intelligence workforce.
1

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

4

This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Artificial Intelligence Job Opportunities and Background Summary Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘AI JOBS Act of 2019’’.
7

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

8

It is the sense of Congress that technology can improve the lives of individuals, but can also disrupt jobs,
10 and for this reason, innovation should be encouraged while training and retraining American workers for our 21st century economy.


SEC. 3. REPORT ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.

REPORT REQUIREMENTS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor, in collaboration with the individuals and entities
described in subsection (b), shall prepare and submit to
the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, a report on artificial
intelligence and its impact on the workforce, which shall include the following:

(1) Outline the specific data, and the availability of such data, necessary to properly analyze the impact and growth of artificial intelligence.


(2) Identification of industries that are projected to have the most growth in artificial intelligence use, and whether the technology will result in
the enhancement of workers’ capabilities or their replacement.

(3) Analysis of the expertise and education (including computer science literacy) needed to develop,
operate, or work alongside artificial intelligence over the next two decades, as compared to the levels of
such expertise and education among the workforce as of the date of enactment of this Act.

(4) Analysis of which demographics (including ethnic, gender, economic, age, and regional) may experience expanded career opportunities, and which
such demographics may be vulnerable to career displacement, due to artificial intelligence.

(5) Any recommendations to alleviate workforce displacement, prepare future workforce members for
the artificial-intelligence economy, and any other relevant observations or recommendations within the
field of artificial intelligence.

COLLABORATION.—In preparing the report under
subsection (a), the Secretary of Labor shall collaborate,through a series of public meetings, roundtables or other methods, with local educational agencies, institutions of
higher education (including community colleges),
workforce-training organizations, and National Laboratories;

(2) a broad range of industrial stakeholders inthe technology, manufacturing, and service sectors,
including companies (large and small), think tanks, and industry organizations; and

(3) the Secretary of Commerce and the heads of any other Federal agency the Secretary of Labor
determines appropriate.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.


In this Act:
(1) ARTIFICIAL

(A) think like humans (including cognitive
architectures and neural networks);
(B) act like humans (such as passing the
Turing test using natural language processing,
knowledge representation, automated reasoning,
and learning);


(C) think rationally (such as logic solvers,
inference, and optimization);

(D) act rationally (such as intelligent software agents and embodied robots that achieve goals via perception, planning, reasoning, learning, communicating, decision making, 
and acting); or
(E) automate or replicate intelligent behavior.

(2) COMMUNITY

24

COLLEGE.—The term ‘‘community college’’ has the meaning given the term ‘‘junior

1

or community college’’ in section 312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1058(f)).

3

(3) INSTITUTION

OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher

6

Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).

7

(4) LOCAL

EDUCATIONAL AGENCY.—The ‘‘local educational agency’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
