II
116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. 1363
To authorize an AI Center of Excellence within the General Services
Administration, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MAY 8, 2019
Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. PORTMAN, and Ms. HARRIS) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
A BILL
To authorize an AI Center of Excellence within the General
Services Administration, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘AI in Government Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act—
VerDate Sep 11 2014
20:39 May 16, 2019
(1) the term ‘‘Administration’’ means the General Services Administration;
(2) the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the Administrator of General Services;
(3) the term ‘‘agency’’ has the meaning given
the term in section 3502 of title 44, United States Code;
(4) the term ‘‘AI CoE’’ means the AI Center of
Excellence described in section 3;
(5) the term ‘‘artificial intelligence’’ means any
method implemented on a computer, including any
method that is drawn from machine learning, data
science, or statistics, to enable the computer to carry
out a task or behavior that would require intelligence 
if performed by a human;
(6) the term ‘‘Board’’ means the advisory board
established under section 5(a);
(7) the term ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget;
(8) the term ‘‘institution of higher education’’
has the meaning given the term in section 102 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002);
and
(9) the term ‘‘nonprofit organization’’ means an
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from
taxation under section 501(a) of that Code.
SEC. 3. AI CENTER OF EXCELLENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established within the
3 Administration an office to be known as the ‘‘AI Center
4 of Excellence’’, which shall—
(1) advise and promote the efforts of the Federal Government in developing innovative uses of artificial 
intelligence by the Federal Government to the
benefit of the public; and
(2) improve cohesion and competency in the use
of artificial intelligence.
(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the AI CoE shall include
(1) regularly convening individuals from agencies, 
industry, Federal laboratories, nonprofit organizations, 
institutions of higher education, and other
entities to discuss recent developments in artificial intelligence, 
including the dissemination of information 
regarding programs, pilots, and other initiatives
at agencies, as well as recent trends and relevant information on 
artificial intelligence;
(2) advising Federal Government acquisition
and use of artificial intelligence through technical insight 
and expertise, as needed;
assisting agencies in applying the management 
and use of data in applications of artificial intelligence;
(4) identifying and disseminating information
regarding educational and workforce development
opportunities for agency employees relative to artificial intelligence 
topics, and leading those opportunities, as needed;
(5) studying economic, policy, legal, and ethical
challenges and implications related to the use of artificial intelligence 
by the Federal Government, including how the privacy, civil liberties, and civil
rights of individuals are or will be affected by the
use of artificial intelligence by the Federal Government;
(6) encouraging and assisting joint initiatives
with State or local governments, regional organizations, private businesses, institutions of higher education, 
nonprofit organizations, and Federal laboratories 
to advance the innovative use of artificial intelligence 
in government; and
(7) assisting relevant agencies in developing
and maintaining plans for the governance of agency
artificial intelligence systems.
(c) STAFF .—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—The
Administrator shall provide 
necessary staff, resources, and administrative
support for the AI CoE.
(2) TEMPORARY
OR TERM APPOINTMENTS.—
The Administrator may hire temporary or term employees 
in accordance with part 316 of title 5, Code
of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation,
to serve as AI CoE employees.
(3) FELLOWS.—The Administrator may, to the
maximum extent practicable, appoint fellows to participate 
in the AI CoE from nonprofit organizations,
think tanks, institutions of higher education, and industry.
(4) DETAILS.—When appropriate, and to the
maximum extent practicable, the Administrator may
detail AI CoE employees to agencies on a reimbursable 
or non-reimbursable basis in accordance with
section 3341 of title 5, United States Code.
(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Administrator shall
17 submit to Congress an annual report on the AI CoE,
18 which shall include, for the preceding year—
(1) a summary of the activity of the AI CoE,
including a description of specific projects worked on
in partnership with agencies;
(2) recommendations on ways in which agencies
can better support the development and deployment
of artificial intelligence, including initiatives designed 
to promote knowledge of those technologies
among the Federal workforce; and
(3) an identification of joint initiatives encouraged 
or assisted under subsection (b)(6).
(e) TRANSFER
OF
FUNCTIONS.—All functions of the
6 Emerging Citizen Technology Office of the Administration, 
including the personnel, assets, and obligations of the
Emerging Citizen Technology Office, as in existence before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be transferred to
the AI CoE.
DEEMING
OF
NAME.—Any reference in law, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the United
States to the Emerging Citizen Technology Office of the
Administration shall be deemed a reference to the AI CoE.
AGENCY GOVERNANCE PLANS FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.
(a) GUIDANCE.—In order to develop a clear and comprehensive 
understanding of how artificial intelligence can
19 be used to deliver benefits to citizens of the United States
20 while mitigating risks, the Director, in coordination with
21 the Administrator, the head of any relevant agency as 
determined by the Director, and key stakeholders, shall issue
23 a memorandum to the head of each agency that shall—
(1) inform the development of artificial intelligence governance approaches by those agencies 
regarding technologies and applications that—
(A) are empowered or enabled by the use
of artificial intelligence within that agency; and
(B) advance the innovative use of artificial
intelligence for the benefit of the public while
upholding civil liberties, privacy, and civil
rights;
(2) consider ways to reduce barriers to the use
of artificial intelligence in order to promote innovative 
application of those technologies for the benefit
of the public, while protecting civil liberties, privacy,
and civil rights;
(3) establish best practices for identifying, assessing, 
and mitigating any bias on the basis of any
classification protected under Federal nondiscrimination 
laws or other negative unintended consequence
stemming from the use of artificial intelligence systems; and
(4) provide a template of the required contents
of the agency Governance Plans described in sub-
section (b).
(b) AGENCY GOVERNANCE PLANS.—Not later than
25 180 days after the date on which the memorandum is
1 issued under subsection (a), the head of each agency
2 shall—
(1) review the applications of artificial intelligence at the agency;
(2) identify and prioritize applications of artificial intelligence 
that would significantly benefit the
public while upholding civil liberties, privacy, and
civil rights; and
(3) submit to the Director and the Administrator a 
Governance Plan to achieve consistency with
the memorandum.
(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each agency described
13 in subsection (b) shall—
(1) not later than 1 year after the date on
which the head of the agency submits the Governance 
Plan of the agency under subsection (b), and
each year thereafter, update the Governance Plan
pursuant to any change in the factors described in
20
(2) solicit public feedback during the development 
of the Governance Plan in the form of public
hearings and online submission of comments; and
(3) make available each Governance Plan centrally available 
in a machine-readable format at a
publicly available online portal on the website of the
agency.
(d) CENTRAL ONLINE GOVERNANCE PLANS PORTAL .—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The
Administrator shall
maintain a single public interface online to compile
published agency Governance Plans in accordance
with subsection (c).
(2) SUBMISSION
OF LINKS.—The
Administrator
and the Director shall ensure that agencies can submit 
links, with appropriate descriptive metadata, to
the public Governance Plans for publication and
public availability on the interface described in paragraph
SEC. 5. ADVISORY BOARD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall establish
17 an advisory board to advise the Administrator on issues
18 that are relevant to the mission and duties of the AI CoE
19 and to inform the priorities and projects worked on by
20 the AI CoE.
(1) CHAIR.—The Director shall serve as Chair
of the Board.
(2) OTHER MEMBERS.—The
Board shall be
composed of the following members:
(A) One designee from each of the following:
(i) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
(ii) The Department of Commerce.
(B) Six designees from agencies not listed
in subparagraph (A), who shall be designated
by the Chair of the Board once every 12 months.
(C) Eight members designated by the
Chair of the Board once every 6 months, of
whom—
(i) four shall be representatives of relevant industries;
(ii) two shall be representatives of institutions of higher education; and
(iii) two shall be representatives of
public interest groups representing civil liberties, privacy, and civil rights issues.
(3) QUALIFICATIONS.—Each member of the
Board designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of
paragraph (2) shall have demonstrated experience
and expertise in the field of artificial intelligence.
(c) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet not less frequently than once every 12 months.
(d) ANNUAL LIST.—Each year, the Board shall publish on a publicly available website a list of areas of 
improvement within the Federal Government that would 
benefit from additional technical or technical policy expertise.
(e) COMPENSATION.—Members of the Board shall
6 serve on the Board without compensation, except that
7 members of the Board may be allowed travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized
9 for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter
10 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their
11 homes or regular places of business in the performance
12 of services for the Board.
(f) DURATION.—Section 14 of the Federal Advisory
14 Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the
15 Board.
SEC. 6. UPDATE OF OCCUPATIONAL SERIES FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act, and in accordance with chapter 51 of title 5,
20 United States Code, the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management shall—
(1) identify key skills and competencies needed
for positions related to artificial intelligence; and
(2) establish an occupational series, or update
and improve an existing occupational job series, to
include positions the primary duties of which relate
to artificial intelligence.
SEC. 7. SUNSET.
Sections 3 and 5 of this Act shall cease to be effective
5 on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment
6 of this Act.