II
116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
S. 1398
To promote the use of smart technologies and systems in communities, and
for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MAY 9, 2019
Ms. CANTWELL introduced the following bill; which was read twice and
referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
A BILL
To promote the use of smart technologies and systems in
communities, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the
‘‘Smart Cities and Communities Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE
OF
CONTENTS.—The table of contents for
7 this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purpose.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
TITLE I—ENHANCING FEDERAL COORDINATION AND
INVESTMENT IN SMART CITY OR COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
Sec. 101. Coordination of activities among Federal agencies.
Sec. 102. Smart city and community resource guide.
TITLE II—PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO CITIES AND COMMUNITIES
Technology demonstration grant program.
Cybersecurity Working Group.
TechHire Workforce Training and Development Program.
GAO study on innovative financing.
TITLE III—IMPROVING PERFORMANCE AND INTEROPERABILITY
Sec. 301. Standards and interoperability framework.
TITLE IV—INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND BEST PRACTICES
Sec. 401. Development of global smart city or community best practices.
Sec. 402. Trade program.
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to promote smart technologies 
and systems to improve community livability,
services, communication, safety, mobility, energy 
productivity, and resilience to natural and manmade disasters,
6 to reduce costs, traffic congestion, and air pollution, and
7 to promote economic growth and opportunities for communities of all sizes by—
(1) improving Federal Government coordination
and outreach with respect to smart city or community technologies;
(2) promoting the quality and performance of
smart city or community technologies while protecting—
(A) the security of data and systems; and
(B) privacy;
(3) demonstrating the value and utility of
smart, local government-owned and -operated services 
through the development and implementation of
performance standards;
(4) providing assistance to local governments
interested in implementing smart city or community
technologies;
(5) developing a workforce skilled in smart city
or community technologies; and
(6) expanding international cooperation and
trade in smart city or community technologies.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means the
Interagency Council on Smart Cities established
under section 101(a)(1)(A)(i).
(2) DATA.—The term ‘‘data’’ includes information and images.
(3) LOCAL
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT BOARD;
terms ‘‘local workforce development board’’ and
‘‘State workforce development board’’ have the
meanings given the terms ‘‘local board’’ and ‘‘State
board’’, respectively, in section 3 of the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT
BOARD.—The
(4) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means the Secretary, acting in coordination with—
(A) the Secretary of Energy;
(B) the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development;
(C) the Secretary of Transportation;
(D) the Director of the National Science
Foundation; and
(E) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate—
(i) the Secretary of Health and
Human Services;
(ii) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(iii) the Secretary of Labor; and
(iv) the Secretary of State.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of Commerce.
(6) SMART
CITY OR COMMUNITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The
term ‘‘smart city or community’’ means a community in which
innovative, advanced, and trustworthy information, communication, and energy technologies
and related mechanisms are applied—
(i) to improve the health and quality
of life of residents;
(ii) to increase the efficiency and cost
effectiveness of civic operations and services;
(iii) to promote economic growth; and
(iv) to create a community that is
safer and more secure, sustainable, resilient, livable, and workable.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘smart city or community’’ includes a local jurisdiction
that—
(i) gathers and incorporates data from
systems, devices, and sensors embedded in
civic systems and infrastructure to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of civic operations and services;
(ii) aggregates and analyzes gathered
data ;
(iii) communicates the analysis and
data in a variety of formats;
(iv) makes corresponding improvements 
to civic systems and services based
on gathered data;
(v) coordinates with relevant public
and private sector entities (including entities \
providing electric, water, telecommunications, 
energy, and transportation services) to leverage the activities carried out
by those entities;
(vi) integrates measures—
(I) to ensure the resilience of
civic systems against cybersecurity
threats and physical vulnerabilities
and breaches;
(II) to protect the private data of
residents; and
(III) to measure the impact of
smart city or community technologies
on the effectiveness and efficiency of
civic operations and services; and
(vii) promotes regional coordination of
the activities described in clauses (i)
through (vi).
(7) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means—
(A) a State;
(B) the District of Columbia;
(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
United States.
(8) WORKING
term ‘‘Working Group’’ means the Cybersecurity Working Group established under section 202(b)(1).
TITLE I—ENHANCING FEDERAL
COORDINATION AND INVESTMENT IN SMART CITY OR
COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES AMONG FEDERAL
AGENCIES.
(a) COORDINATION.—
(1) COORDINATION
(A) FEDERAL
OF ACTIVITIES.—
COUNCIL.—
ESTABLISHMENT.—The taries shall establish a council of Federal
agencies, to be known as the ‘‘Interagency Council on Smart Cities’’, to promote the
coordination of the activities and funding
from Federal agencies relating to smart
cities or communities.
MEMBERSHIP.—The
Council
shall—
(I) be led by the Secretary; and
(II) include—
GROUP.—The
(aa) the Secretary of Energy;
(bb) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;
(cc) the Secretary of Transportation;
(dd) the Director of the National Science Foundation;
(ee) the heads of such other
departments and agencies as the
Secretary determines to be appropriate, including—
(AA) the Secretary of
Homeland Security;
(BB) the Secretary of
Labor; and
(CC) the Secretary of
State; and
(ff) such representatives of
industry expert organizations and
local government entities as the
Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(B) PRIORITIZATION.—For purposes of coordinating Federal activities under subparagraph 
(A), the Secretaries shall prioritize the
conduct of Federal activities that would—
(i) demonstrate smart city or community 
technologies in repeatable ways that
can rapidly be scaled;
(ii) encourage public, private, regional, national, and international sharing
of data and best practices;
(iii) encourage private sector innovation by promoting industry-driven technology standards, open platforms, 
technology-neutral requirements, and interoperability;
(iv) promote—
(I) a skilled workforce;
(II) an open and competitive
global market for smart city or community technologies;
(III) inclusion of all citizens, including minority or disadvantaged
groups; and
(IV) protocols and standards that
allow for the measurement and validation 
of the cost savings and performance improvements associated with
the installation and use of smart city
or community technologies and practices;
(v) foster the growth of the smart city
or community technology industry and
workforce in the United States;
(vi) encourage the adoption of smart
city or community technologies by communities;
(vii) safeguard cybersecurity, including by promoting industry practices regarding 
cybersecurity; and
(viii) safeguard privacy and, in consultation with cities, communities, and industry entities, 
establish parameters and
best practices for the full life cycle management of all types of smart city or community data, 
including collection, storage,
ownership, and sharing of data.
CONSIDERATIONS.—The Secretaries
shall—
(i) ensure that the Federal activities
described in subparagraph (B) related to
safeguarding cybersecurity take into account existing Federal, State, 
and local
frameworks, guidelines, and best practices
when considering their application to smart
city technologies;
(ii) ensure that the Federal activities
described in subparagraph (B) take into
consideration software quality, especially
as that quality impacts reproducibility,
maintainability, reliability, and security,
especially of high-confidence systems;
(iii) conduct privacy impact assessments for 
Federal activities that could negatively affect privacy; and
(iv) ensure the privacy of individuals
through the use of technologies with inherent 
privacy and security considerations.
(2) STRATEGY.—
(A) IN
Secretaries, acting
through the Council, in consultation with industry 
entities, cities, and communities, shall develop a multiyear strategy for—
(i) the coordination of activities and
GENERAL.—The
funding under paragraph (1)(A);
(ii) the development of partnerships
with the private sector relating to smart cities or communities; and
(iii) the promotion of international cooperation with respect to smart city or
community technologies and standards.
(B) REQUIREMENT.—The Secretaries shall
coordinate with the heads of any applicable
Federal agencies to leverage private sector and
non-Federal public investment in smart city or
community technologies consistent with the
strategy developed under subparagraph (A).
(3) ASSESSMENT.—
(A) IN
GENERAL.—Not
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the
heads of other applicable Federal agencies, shall
coordinate with such private and public organizations 
and units of local government as the
Secretary of Labor determines to be appropriate 
regarding the preparation of a smart city
or community technology workforce needs assessment.
(B) SUBMISSION.—On completion of the
assessment prepared under subparagraph (A),
the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and the
Council the completed assessment.
(4) COORDINATION
OF FUNDS.—In
promoting
the coordination of Federal funding relating to
smart city or community activities under paragraph
(1)(A) and in accordance with the strategy developed
under paragraph (2)(A), each of the Secretaries
shall—
(A) track, with respect to the appropriate
agency, the expenditures and planned expenditures of Federal funds for smart city- or 
community-related activities, together with leveraged 
non-Federal matching funds; and
(B) coordinate with the head of any other
applicable Federal agency that allocates funds
for smart city or community activities—
(i) to achieve greater benefits from activities using Federal funds;
(ii) to produce integrated projects relating to those activities; and
(iii) to leverage complementary investments of other Federal agencies in those
activities.
(b) SUBMISSION
OF
INFORMATION
AND
BIENNIAL
23 REPORT.—During the 6-year period beginning on the date
24 of enactment of this Act—
(1) the head of each applicable Federal agency
shall submit to the Secretary information for inclusion 
in the report submitted under paragraph (2);
(2) not less frequently than once every 2 years,
the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and 
Commerce and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report, based on the information under
paragraph (1), that includes—
(A) an update of the status of relevant
smart city or community technology develop-
ments and applications, including broadband infrastructure;
(B) a description of any related program
or activity that is funded by the Federal agency
during the period covered by the report;
(C) the budget of the agency for supporting smart city or community activities, as
described in subsection (a)(4)(A);
(D) any non-Federal cost-share contributed 
for activities for which Federal assistance
is provided under this section;
(E) a description of the applicable strategy
under subsection (a)(2)(A), including a description of how the relevant programs are 
progressing under that strategy;
(F) a description of outreach activities conducted 
under section 102(d), including the
amount and type of assistance required by cities
and communities to overcome barriers to implementing 
smart city or community technologies,
and any Federal actions that are needed to
meet those needs;
(G) a description of projects funded under
section 201, including a description of—
(i) project outcomes and performance;
and
(ii) the use of leveraged non-Federal
funds; and
(H) such other information as the Secretary determines to be necessary.
SEC. 102. SMART CITY AND COMMUNITY RESOURCE GUIDE.
(a) PUBLICATION.—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in coordination 
with the heads of any other applicable Federal
agencies, shall create, publish, and maintain, for a
period of at least 6 years beginning on the date that
is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, a
resource guide designed to assist States and United
States communities and cities in developing and implementing smart city or community programs.
(2) INFORMATION
INCLUDED.—The
Secretaries,
in coordination with cities, communities, and industry entities, shall determine which information shall
be included in the guide under paragraph (1).
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The guide published under
10 subsection (a)—
shall be maintained electronically on a
website;
(2) shall be provided as an electronic reference
guide available to the public free of charge; and
(3) may include—
(A) a compilation of existing related programs 
of the Federal Government available to
communities, including technical assistance,
education, training, research and development,
analysis, and funding;
(B) available examples of local governments engaging private sector entities in order
to implement smart city or community solutions, including public-private partnership models, 
such as the use of energy savings performance contracts and utility energy service 
contracts or other innovative models, that could be
used to leverage private sector funding to increase energy productivity and reduce water,
transportation, and other costs to cities and
communities, including the results of the study
under section 204;
(C) available examples of proven methods
for local governments and utilities to facilitate
integration of smart technologies with new and
existing infrastructure and systems;
(D) best practices and lessons learned
from technology demonstrations, including 
return on investment and performance information 
to help cities decide how to initiate integration of smart technologies;
(E) Federal, State, and local best practices
for safeguarding cybersecurity and ensuring appropriate 
data management and data privacy;
(F) technical specifications for wireless or
wired broadband infrastructure to support
smart city technologies; and
(G) such other topics as are requested by
industry entities or local governments or determined to be necessary by the Secretaries.
(c) EXISTING GUIDES.—In creating, publishing, and
2 maintaining the guide under subsection 
(a) the Secretaries shall consider Federal, State, and local guides 
published before, on, or after the date of enactment of this
5 Act relating to smart city or community goals, activities,
6 and best practices—
(1) to prevent duplication of efforts by the Federal Government; and
(2) to leverage existing complementary efforts.
(d) OUTREACH.—The Secretaries, in coordination
11 with the heads of any applicable Federal agencies and in
12 consultation with applicable private sector entities, shall
13 conduct outreach to States, cities, and communities—
(1) to provide interested States and cities with
the guide published under subsection (a);
(2) to promote the consideration of smart city
or community technologies and encourage States
and local governments to contribute smart city or
community program and activity data to the guide
published under subsection (a);
(3) to identify—
(A) barriers to smart city or community
(B) any research, development, and assistance 
that is needed, including in Tribal, rural,
and underserved communities; and
(C) local government programs that could
be included in the guide under subsection (a);
(4) to respond to requests for assistance, advice, 
or consultation from cities; and
(5) for other purposes, as identified by the Secretaries.
TITLE II—PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO CITIES AND COMMUNITIES
SEC. 201. TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish a
16 smart city or community regional demonstration grant
17 program under which the Secretary shall conduct 
demonstration projects focused on advanced smart city or
community technologies and systems in a variety of 
communities, including small- and medium-sized cities and
rural and Tribal communities.
(b) GOALS.—The goals of the program established
23 under subsection (a) are—
(1) to demonstrate—
(A) potential benefits of concentrated investments 
in smart city or community technologies 
that are repeatable and scalable across
cities of different sizes; and
(B) the efficiency, reliability, and resilience
of civic infrastructure and services;
(2) to facilitate the adoption of advanced smartcity or community technologies and collaboration between 
small- and medium- to large-sized cities; and
(3) to demonstrate protocols and standards that
allow for the measurement and validation of the cost
savings and performance improvements associated
with the installation and use of smart city or community technologies and practices.
(c) DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.—
(1) ELIGIBILITY.—Subject to paragraph (2), a
unit of local government shall be eligible to receive
a grant for a demonstration project under this section.
(2) APPLICATION;
COOPERATION.—To
for a demonstration project under this section, a
unit of local government shall—
(A) submit to the Secretary an application
for a grant for a demonstration project at such
time and containing such information as the
Secretary may require; and
(B) agree to follow applicable best practices 
identified by the Secretaries, in consultation 
with industry entities and institutions of
higher education, to evaluate the effectiveness
of the implemented smart city or community
technologies to ensure that—
(i) technologies and interoperability
can be assessed;
(ii) best practices can be shared; and
(iii) data can be shared in a public,
interoperable, and transparent format.
15
(3) FEDERAL
SHARE OF COST OF TECHNOLOGY
INVESTMENTS.—The Secretary—
(A) subject to subparagraph (B), shall provide to a unit of local government selected
under this section for the conduct of a demonstration project a grant in an amount equal
to not more than 50 percent of the total cost
of technology investments to incorporate and
assess qualifying smart city or community technologies in the applicable jurisdiction; but
(B) may waive the cost-share requirement
of subparagraph (A) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(d) REQUIREMENT.—In conducting demonstration
projects under this section, the Secretary shall—
(1) develop competitive, technology-neutral requirements;
(2) seek to leverage ongoing or existing civic infrastructure investments; and
(3) take into consideration the non-Federal cost
share as a competitive criterion in applicant selection in order to leverage non-Federal investment.
(e) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY
PORTS.—The
OF
DATA
AND
RE -
Secretary shall ensure that reports, public
15 data sets, schematics, diagrams, and other works created
16 using a grant provided under this section are—
(1) available on a royalty-free, non-exclusive
basis; and
(2) open to the public to reproduce, publish, or
otherwise use, without cost.
(f) AUTHORIZATION
OF
APPROPRIATIONS.—There is
22 authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (c)
23 $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
SEC. 202. CYBERSECURITY WORKING GROUP.
(a) SENSE
OF
CONGRESS.—It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the work conducted by the Internet Policy
Task Force and the Digital Economy Leadership
Team of the Department of Commerce to foster an
enabling environment for Internet of Things technology to grow and thrive, allow the private sector
to lead, and promote technology-neutral standards
and consensus-based multistakeholder approaches to
policymaking at local, Tribal, State, Federal, and
international levels on issues ranging from the security 
to the competitiveness of the United States is
valuable and should be continued; and
(2) the work conducted by the Department of
Commerce and the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration to create resources
for communities seeking to adopt smart cities or
communities technology is valuable and should be
continued.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—The
Secretary, in consultation with 
the Council, shall convene a multistake-
holder working group, to be known as the ‘‘Cybersecurity Working Group’’, to develop tools for communities 
to use to evaluate the cybersecurity of smart
city or community technologies.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) IN appointing members
to the Working Group, the Secretary shall consider appointing—
groups;
representatives
of
(ii) representatives of small units of
local government, as determined by the
Secretary;
(iii) representatives of large units of
local government, as determined by the
Secretary;
(iv) manufacturers of smart city or
community devices, equipment, and software;
(v) individuals with expertise in communications networks;
(vi) Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials;
(vii) individuals with other expertise
necessary to carry out the duties of the
Working Group; and
(viii) such representatives of the
Council as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
(B)
appointing
members to the Working Group, the Secretary
shall ensure that the Working Group includes a
multidisciplinary cross section of smart city or
community stakeholders.
(3) DUTIES.—The Working Group shall—
(A) leverage and build on previous activities 
carried out by the Department of Commerce relating to Internet of Things technology;
(B) develop tools for communities to evaluate 
the cybersecurity of smart city or community technology being considered by the communities 
for adoption in those communities;
(C) develop tools for communities to protect 
against cybersecurity threats relevant to
the technology the community has chosen to adopt;
(D)(i) assess—
(I) whether Internet of Things cybersecurity standards should exist; and
(II) whether the standards described
in subclause (I) should be voluntary or
mandatory; and
(ii) identify which entity is appropriate to
devise the standards described in clause (i)(I);
and (E) submit to the Council a report that de-
OPMENT PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months after
12 the date of enactment of this Act, based on findings from
13 the needs assessment conducted under section 101(a)(3),
14 the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary,
15 shall establish a pilot program, to be known as the
16 ‘‘TechHire Workforce Training and Development Pilot
17 Program’’, under which the Secretary of Labor, during the
18 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this
19 Act, shall provide to eligible entities, on a competitive
20 basis, grants for technology-based job training and education programs 
that provide industry-recognized credentials.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—A job training and education
24 program that is awarded a grant under this section
25 shall—
(1) provide technology-based training across 2
or more sectors;
(2) focus on smart city or community technologies, systems, and infrastructure across all sectors 
of the economy;
(3) address privacy and cybersecurity considerations; and
(4) address smart city or community workforce
needs identified by the Secretary of Labor, after
consultation with other applicable Federal agencies.
(c) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—To be eligible to receive a
12 grant under this section, an entity shall be a public organization or an organization described in section 501(c) of
14 the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
taxation under section 501(a) of that Code that—
(1) includes an advisory board, which may be—
(A)(i) a local workforce development board;
(ii) a State workforce development board;
(iii) an appropriate subgroup of a local
workforce development board or a State workforce 
development board; or
(B) a board of proportional participation,
as determined by the Secretary of Labor, of relevant organizations, including—
(i) relevant industry organizations, including public and private employers;
(ii) labor organizations;
(iii) one or more units of local government that are actively pursuing smart city
or community programs; and
(iv) postsecondary education organizations;
(2) demonstrates experience in implementing
and operating job training and education programs;
(3) demonstrates the ability to recruit and support 
individuals who plan to work in a relevant sector on 
the successful completion of relevant job
training and education programs;
(4)(A) provides students who complete the
training and education program with an industry-
recognized credential; or
(B) uses a curriculum that has received extensive feedback from employers; and
(5) demonstrates successful outcomes connecting graduates 
of job training and education programs to quality jobs relevant to the job training
and education programs.
(d) APPLICATIONS.—An eligible entity seeking a
25 grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary of
Labor an application at such time, in such manner, and
containing such information as the Secretary of Labor
may require.
(e) PRIORITY.—In selecting eligible entities to receive
grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall
prioritize applicants that—
(1)(A) are a local workforce development board
or State workforce development board; or
(B) demonstrate a strong partnership with a
local workforce development board or State work-
force development board;
(2) house the job training and education program in—
(A) a community college or institution of
higher education that includes basic science,
technology, and math education in the curriculum of the community college or institution
of higher education; or
(B) an apprenticeship program registered
with the Department of Labor or a State;
(3) work with the Secretary of Defense or veterans organizations to transition members of the
Armed Forces and veterans to careers in a relevant
sector;
(4) include in the application an entity that receives State funding or is operated by a State agency;
(5) include an apprenticeship program registered with the Department of Labor or a State as
part of the job training and education program;
(6) provide support services and career coaching;
(7) provide entry-level technology workforce
training aimed at matching workers with well-paying
jobs; or (8) propose to serve—
(A) young adults between the ages of 16
and 24; or
(B) individuals with barriers to employment (as defined in section 3 of the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C.
(f) ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION.—In making grants
20 under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall consider
21 regional diversity.
(g) LIMITATION ON APPLICATIONS.—An eligible entity may not submit, either individually or as part of a joint
24 application, more than 1 application for a grant under this
25 section during any 1 fiscal year.
(h) LIMITATIONS
ON
AMOUNT
OF
GRANT.—The
2 amount of a single grant provided under this section for
3 any 1 year shall not exceed $5,000,000.
(i) NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—The non-Federal share
5 of the cost of a job training and education program carried
6 out using a grant under this section shall be not less than
7 25 percent of the total cost.
(j) REDUCTION
OF
DUPLICATION.—Before submitting an application for a grant under this section, each
10 applicant shall—
(1) consult with the heads of appropriate Federal agencies; and
(2) coordinate the proposed activities of the applicant with existing State and local programs.
(k) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary of
16 Labor, in consultation with the Secretary, may provide
17 technical assistance to eligible entities under subsection
18 (c) to leverage the existing job training and education pro19 grams of the Department of Labor and other relevant pro20 grams at appropriate Federal agencies.
(l) REPORT.—Not less frequently than once every 2
22 years, the Secretary of Labor shall submit to Congress,
23 and make publicly available on the website of the Department of Labor, a report on the program established under
25 this section, including a description of—
(1) any entity that receives a grant under this section;
(2) any activity carried out using the grants
under this section;
(3) best practices used to leverage the investment of the Federal Government under this section;
and
(4) an assessment of the results achieved by the
program established under this section, including the
rate of employment for participants after completing
a job training and education program carried out
using a grant under this section.
(m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—There is
14 authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
15 $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
SEC. 204. GAO STUDY ON INNOVATIVE FINANCING.
Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment
18 of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States
19 shall conduct a study to identify—
(1) financial and procurement mechanisms currently available to public and private entities to fund
smart city or community activities and associated
demonstration projects, including ‘‘pay for performance’’ financing that could deliver measurable and
verifiable market and non-market values to smart
cities or communities;
(2) new, innovative financial and procurement
mechanisms under development or used experimentally that may be available, in the near term, to
public and private entities to fund smart city or
community activities and associated demonstration
projects;
(3) barriers to creative financing solutions for
those activities and projects, including procurement
barriers faced by State and local governments; and
(4) ways to leverage private sector investments
in smart cities and communities.
TITLE
III—IMPROVING
PERFORMANCE AND INTEROPERABILITY
SEC. 301. STANDARDS AND INTEROPERABILITY FRAMEWORK.
(a) PARTICIPATION.—To strengthen the public-private partnership approach to smart city- or community21 related standards development and interoperability, the
22 Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall strongly en24 courage and support participation by Federal Government
25 experts in private sector-led standards-related activities
1 that convene smart city or community stakeholders, including representatives of applicable Federal agencies.
(b) ACTIVITIES.—To promote innovation and economic competitiveness and to achieve interoperability of
5 smart city or community devices and systems, while
6 strengthening the United States approach to private sector-led 
standardization activities and the participation of
Federal representatives under subsection (a), the Sec9 retary, in consultation with private and public sector
10 stakeholders, shall—
(1) survey and review domestic and international smart city or community performance standards, existing architectures, applications, and
deployments, and interoperability standards;
(2) make consensus-based recommendations—
(A) to identify gaps in the smart city or
community performance standards and interoperability standards under paragraph (1);
(B) to harmonize existing standards and
deployment efforts and enable greater interoperability across smart city or community
technologies;
(C) to coordinate domestic and international performance standards and interoperability standards to promote uniform performance 
standards and interoperability standards
worldwide, including with respect to the need
for testing and demonstration; and
(D) for guidelines to enable interoperability
in the collection, storage, ownership, and sharing of data;
(3) based on the recommendations under paragraph 
(2), develop a consensus-based framework
that includes protocols and model standards for the
management and exchange of information, including
existing guidelines, best practices, and industry consensus standards;
(4) ensure that cybersecurity and privacy are core elements of the recommended performance
standards and interoperability standards; and
(5) lead international coordination efforts to develop industry-led, technology-neutral, voluntary,
consensus-based global smart city or community performance 
standards and interoperability standards.
TITLE IV—INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND BEST PRACTICES
SEC. 401. DEVELOPMENT OF GLOBAL SMART CITY OR COMMUNITY BEST PRACTICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries may carry out activities—
(1) to enable cities and communities in the
United States and other countries to work together
toward shared smart city- or community-related
goals;
(2) to promote smart city or community solutions that provide measurable benefits to local governments and residents;
(3) to enable an open, global market place for
smart city or community technologies based on voluntary,
standards; and
consensus-based,
and
technology-neutral
(4) to connect innovators from industry and
academia to local governments to catalyze the emergence of open and advanced technologies that—
(A) meet community needs; and
(B) advance innovation and open competition.
(b) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES.—The activities referred to
in subsection (a) may include grants, contracts, c
hallenges, prize competitions, public-private partnerships,
4 and other innovative mechanisms.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN
GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretaries to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.
(2) LIMITATION
ON USE OF FUNDS.—Funds
made available under paragraph (1) may not be used
to provide assistance to—
(A) a foreign country; or
(B) a foreign company (excluding any
United States subsidiary of a foreign holding company).
SEC. 402. TRADE PROGRAM.
The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of

19 State, such other members of the Council as the Secretary
20 determines to be appropriate, and private stakeholders,
21 shall establish a strategic international smart cities and
22 communities trade program, which shall include trade missions—
(1) to promote the export of United States
smart cities or communities technologies;
(2) to stimulate job growth in the United
States;
(3) to identify potential partners and strategies
for United States companies in target foreign market sectors;
(4) to organize events with local governments,
businesses, associations, academia, and other stakeholders 
to promote smart city or community partnerships;
(5) to assist in the development of competitive
strategies and foreign market access for United States smart city or community technology business
interests;
(6) to assist in developing appropriate United States policy regarding United States business and
international smart cities or communities business interests;
(7) to assist in achieving United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change commitments;
(8) to assist in lowering the cost to consumers
of smart cities or communities technologies;
(9) to leverage expertise in infrastructure to deliver solutions that can help make communities more
efficient, livable, and sustainable; and
(10) to work with the United States Agency for
International Development, the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation, and the Export-Import Bank
of the United States to identify opportunities to finance international investment in United States
smart cities or communities technology companies.