116TH CONGRESS
1ST SESSION
To prohibit certain entities from using facial recognition technology to identify
or track an end user without obtaining the affirmative consent of the
end user, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
MARCH 14, 2019
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr. SCHATZ) introduced the following bill; which
was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
A BILL
To prohibit certain entities from using facial recognition
technology to identify or track an end user without obtaining the affirmative consent of the end user, and
for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
3
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Commercial Facial
5 Recognition Privacy Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) AFFIRMATIVE
term ‘‘affirmative consent’’ means the consent of an end user
that involves an individual, voluntary, and explicit
agreement to the collection and data use policies of
a controller.
CONTROLLER.—The
term
‘‘controller’’
means a covered entity that, alone or jointly with
others, determines the purposes and means of the
processing of facial recognition data.
(3) COVERED
ENTITY.—The
term ‘‘covered en-

tity’’—
(A) means any person, including corporate
affiliates, that collects, stores, or processes facial 
recognition data; and
(B) does not include—
(i) the Federal Government or any
State or local government;
(ii) a law enforcement agency;
(iii) a national security agency; or
(iv) an intelligence agency.
(4) END
an individual.
CONSENT.—The
USER.—The
(5) FACIAL
term ‘‘end user’’ means
RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY.—The
term ‘‘facial recognition technology’’ means technology that—
(A) analyzes facial features in still or video
images; and
(B)(i) is used to assign a unique, persistent identifier; or
(ii) is used for the unique personal identification of a specific individual.
(6) FACIAL
DATA.—The
‘‘facial recognition data’’ means any unique attribute
or feature of the face of an end user that is used
by facial recognition technology to assign a unique,
persistent identifier or for the unique personal identification of 
a specific individual.
(7) PROCESS.—The term ‘‘process’’ means any
operation that is performed on facial recognition
data, including collection, creation, generation, recording, 
organization, structuring, storage, adaptation, 
alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure, 
transfer, dissemination or otherwise making
available, combination, erasure, or destruction.
(8) PROCESSOR.—The term ‘‘processor’’ means
a covered entity that processes facial recognition
data on behalf of a controller.
(9) SECURITY
APPLICATION.—The
term ‘‘security application’’ means loss prevention and any
other application intended to detect or prevent criminal activity, 
including shoplifting and fraud.
(10) UNAFFILIATED
THIRD PARTY.—The
‘‘unaffiliated third party’’ means any person other
than —
(A) a user of a product or service of a covered entity;
(B) an employee of a covered entity;
(C) a person under common control or
ownership with a covered entity; or
(D) a person to whom—
(i) an end user directed a covered entity to disclose information derived from
facial recognition technology; or
(ii) information derived from facial
recognition technology was disclosed with
the affirmative consent of an end user.
SEC. 3. PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subsection
20 (e), it shall be unlawful for a controller to knowingly—
(1) use facial recognition technology to collect
facial recognition data, unless the controller —
(A) obtains from an end user affirmative
consent in accordance with subsection (b); and
(B) to the extent possible, if facial recognition technology is present, provides to the end
user —
(i) a concise notice that facial recognition 
technology is present, and, if contextually 
appropriate, where the end user can
find more information about the use of facial 
recognition technology by the controller; and
(ii) documentation that includes general 
information that explains the capabilities 
and limitations of the facial recognition 
technology in terms that end users are
able to understand;
(2) use the facial recognition technology to discriminate 
against an end user in violation of applicable 
Federal or State law;
(3) repurpose facial recognition data for a purpose 
that is different from those presented to the
end user under paragraph (1)(A); or
(4) share the facial recognition data with an
unaffiliated third party without affirmative consent
that is separate from the affirmative consent required 
under paragraph (1)(A).
(b) CONSENT.—
(1) IN
obtaining affirmative
consent, a controller shall make available to an end
user a notice that describes the specific practices of
the processor in terms that end users are able to understand 
regarding the collection, storage, and use
of facial recognition data, including—
(A) the reasonably foreseeable purposes, or
examples, for which the processor collects and
shares information derived from facial recognition 
technology or uses facial recognition technology;
(B) the data retention and deidentification
practices of the processor; and
(C) if the controller offers the ability to review, 
correct, or delete information derived from
facial recognition technology, the process to accomplish such actions.
(2) PROCESSOR
REQUIREMENT.—If
essor and controller are not the same entity, the
processor shall make easily accessible to controllers
the information required under paragraph (1).
(3) CONDITIONING
SERVICE ON CONSENT PROHIBITED.—If
is not necessary for a service, no controller may—
the use of facial recognition technology
GENERAL.—When
(A) condition the service on consent by an
end user to waive privacy rights; or
(B) terminate or refuse the service as a direct consequence of refusal by the end user to
provide affirmative consent to the covered entity.
(c) REVIEW.—A controller, and the processor if applicable, 
shall employ meaningful human review prior to
9 making any final decision based on the output of facial
10 recognition technology if the final decision—
(1) may result in a reasonably foreseeable and
material physical or financial harm to an end user;
or
(2) may be unexpected or highly offensive to a
reasonable end user.
(d) APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE.—A
17 covered entity that makes a facial recognition technology
18 available as an online service shall make available an application 
programming interface to enable at least 1 third
20 party that is legitimately engaged in independent testing
21 to conduct reasonable tests of the facial recognition technology for accuracy and bias.
23
(e) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) IN
as provided in paragraph 
(2), subsections (a)(1) and (b) shall not apply
to controllers that use—
GENERAL.—Except
(A) an application that—
(i) is a product or service designed for
personal file management or photo or video
sorting or storage if the facial recognition
technology is not used for unique personal
identification of a specific individual;
(ii) involves identification of public
figures for journalistic media created for
public interest;
(iii) involves identification of public
figures in copyrighted material for theatrical release; or
(iv) is used if there is an emergency
involving imminent danger or risk of death
or serious physical injury to an individual;
(B) facial recognition data to determine
whether an end user has given affirmative consent if the controller immediately and 
permanently destroys the facial recognition data after
determining that the end user has not given affirmative consent.
SECURITY
APPLICATIONS.—Subsections
(a)(1)(A) and (b) shall not apply to controllers that
use an application that is a security application.
(3) RULE
OF
CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing
in
paragraph (1)(B) may be construed to authorize the
mass scanning of faces in spaces where end users do
not have a reasonable expectation that facial recognition 
technology is being used on them.
SEC. 4. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) UNFAIR
OR
DECEPTIVE ACT
OR
PRACTICE.—A
violation of section 3 shall be treated as a violation of a
12 rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice 
prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade
14 Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
(b) POWERS OF COMMISSION.—
(1) IN
Federal Trade Commission shall enforce this Act in the same manner, by
the same means, and with the same jurisdiction as
though all applicable terms and provisions of the
Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et
seq.) were incorporated into and made a part of this
GENERAL.—The
(2) PRIVILEGES
AND IMMUNITIES.—Any
who violates section 3 shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities
person
provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act (15
U.S.C. 41 et seq.).
(c) ENFORCEMENT BY STATES.—
(1) IN
the attorney general of a
State has reason to believe that an interest of the
residents of the State has been or is being threatened or adversely affected by a practice that violates
section 3, the attorney general of the State may, as
parens patriae, bring a civil action on behalf of the
residents of the State in an appropriate district
court of the United States to obtain appropriate relief.
(2) RIGHTS
OF COMMISSION.—
(A) NOTICE
GENERAL.—If
(i) IN
TO COMMISSION.—
GENERAL.—Except
in clause (iii), the attorney general of a
State, before initiating a civil action under
paragraph (1), shall provide written notification 
to the Commission that the attorney
general intends to bring such civil action.
(ii) CONTENTS.—The notification required 
under clause (i) shall include a copy
of the complaint to be filed to initiate the
civil action.
(iii) EXCEPTION.—If it is not feasible
for the attorney general of a State to provide 
the notification required under clause
(i) before initiating a civil action under
paragraph (1), the attorney general shall
notify the Commission immediately upon
instituting the civil action.
(B) INTERVENTION
Commission may—
(i) intervene in any civil action
brought by the attorney general of a State
under paragraph (1); and
(ii) upon intervening—
(I) be heard on all matters arising 
in the civil action; and
(II) file petitions for appeal of a
decision in the civil action.
BY COMMISSION.—The
(3) INVESTIGATORY
POWERS.—Nothing
subsection may be construed to prevent the attorney
general of a State from exercising the powers conferred 
on the attorney general by the laws of the
State to conduct investigations, to administer oaths
or affirmations, or to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of documentary or other
evidence.
(4) VENUE;
(A) VENUE.—Any action brought under
paragraph (1) may be brought in—
(i) the district court of the United
States that meets applicable requirements
relating to venue under section 1391 of
title 28, United States Code; or
(ii) another court of competent jurisdiction.
(B) SERVICE
OF PROCESS.—In brought under paragraph (1), process may be
served in any district in which—
(i) the defendant is an inhabitant,
may be found, or transacts business; or
(ii) venue is proper under section
1391 of title 28, United States Code.
(5) ACTIONS
(A) IN
BY OTHER STATE OFFICIALS.—
GENERAL.—In
addition to a civil
action brought by an attorney general under
paragraph (1), any other officer of a State who
is authorized by the State to do so may bring
a civil action under paragraph (1), subject to
the same requirements and limitations that
apply under this subsection to civil actions
brought by attorneys general.
an action
SERVICE OF PROCESS.—
(B) SAVINGS
PROVISION.—Nothing
in this
subsection may be construed to prohibit an authorized 
official of a State from initiating or
continuing any proceeding in a court of the
State for a violation of any civil or criminal law
of the State.
SEC. 5. REGULATIONS.
(a) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 180 days after
9 the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade 
Commission, in consultation with the National Institute of
11 Standards and Technology, shall promulgate regulations,
12 in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States
13 Code—
(1) describing data security, minimization, and
retention standards to be met at a minimum by
processors;
(2) defining what is harmful and highly offensive 
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 3(c);
and
(3) expanding the list of exceptions described in
section 3(e) in cases where it is impossible for a controller 
to obtain affirmative consent from, or provide
notice to, end users.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In promulgating regulations
2 under subsection (a), the Commission shall consider,
3 among other factors—
(1) the size of the processor;
(2) the complexity of the offerings of the processor; and
(3) the nature and scope of the activities of the
processor.
SEC. 6. RELATION TO STATE LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—This Act shall not be construed
11 as superseding, altering, or affecting any statute, regulation, 
order, or interpretation in effect in any State, except
13 to the extent that such statute, regulation, order, or 
interpretation is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
15 and then only to the extent of the inconsistency.

(b) GREATER PROTECTION UNDER STATE LAW.—

17 For purposes of this Act, a State statute, regulation,
18 order, or interpretation is not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this subtitle if the protection such statute, 
regulation, order, or interpretation affords any person is greater
21 than the protection provided under this Act, as determined
22 by the Federal Trade Commission.
SEC. 7. RELATION TO OTHER PRIVACY AND SECURITY
LAWS.
Nothing in this Act may be construed to—
(1) modify, limit, or supersede the operation of
any privacy or security provision in any other Federal 
or State law (including regulations); or
(2) limit the authority of the Commission under
any other provision of law.
SEC. 8. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Act shall take effect on the date that is 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.